Dzogchen, what meaning Dzogchen? I mean many of you already know. Few of you, if you don't know,
don't Dzogchen familiar with this world. Dzogchen is a Tibetan world which means great completion,
great completion.
What is completed? The two merits are completed. Akhmalachian merit and Western merits are
completed all in there. Everything is.
And all the three kaiyas are completed. And all the samsara, nirvanas are completed within this.
Everything is completed.
And what is that Dzogchen? That is our nature of the mind, our nature of the mind.
In Dzogchen teaching, that is the terminology, meaning the terminology of Dzogchen. And then, with
that, and then in Dzogchen teaching, what do we say? The ground Dzogchen, path Dzogchen, and result
Dzogchens, or fruit Dzogchens.
Ground Dzogchen is our inner nature of the mind. Your nature of the mind, often in the Buddha
teaching, generally in the sutrayana teaching, what Buddha taught, tathaga, tathaga gharva, tathaga
gharva. That is really ground Dzogchen.
Nature, ground, ordinary nature. This level, ordinary nature, has no difference between anyone,
anyone. Whether you are human beings, whether you are animals, whether you are asuras, or gendavas,
or gods, or heirlooms, or whatever, the nature is the same. There is no difference at all.
Then, since we are not going to practice that, that is known as path, because of that beautiful
college that we have all inherited, we are not going to leave that in the darkness of all the
delusion that we created, the delusion we created.
Create, we are not going to stay. We are going to come up there, come from there, come out of there
. That is known as path Dzogchens. Path Dzogchen also, as I said, to accumulate or to merit are
completed.
Dzogchen is not something that can be singly out of things. All two merits are completed. Akummele
hi merit. What are the two merits? Again, what is Akummelehi merit?
The all the activities that we do with beautiful motivations. Those are named in the Buddha
teaching activities of the six parabolas. All those are known as Akummelehi merit.
There is something, there is a subject, an object, an action, really good motivation when you
perform six parabolas practices. All that.
All the activities we use, precisely these, the first three parabolas. Generosity, morality,
patient parabolas are the example of the Akummelehi merit practices.
And they are also concentrated too, concentrated. And the worst of the parabola is the worst of the
merits, worst of the merits.
And what is the fourth parabola? The joyful effort. It is supported to both all parabolas.
We know the joyful effort, we want to progress, we want to develop it. We want to develop, we want
to progress, we want to perform the generosity, morality, innovation, and concentration.
So therefore, as well as the worst of the parabola, therefore, joyful effort is the support to
everyone. It is like fuel, fuel to move every parabola.
So, the sixth parabola encompasses two Akummelehi merits, worst merit and Akummelehi merits.
Now, with that understanding, with that understanding, Zocchi practices, what we are practicing, in
the Zocchi level, the worst of the parabola is known as Teju practices and Toga practices.
So, Teju and Toga are according, generally Buddhism, Buddha's terminology in Mahayana is worst of
the parabolas.
Now you are practicing, worst of the parabolas. And this parabola is directly, as I said, revealing
the ultimate nature of our own quality, beautiful quality of the Buddha nature.
Not just immediately, conceptual level practicing this and that. Immediately you really discover,
for that reason, Zocchi Teju, the other Zocchi Teju is what we always say, is that Zocchi is beyond
the mind, beyond the conception.
Wisdom is beyond the conception. Immediately you are really discovering, connecting to that, beyond
the conception level of the realization, exactly as Buddha, Guru Pya Mahasam Bhagavat, Greater Mah
asat Panchi Bhagavat are realizing.
We are immediately connected to that, immediately through the skillful means of the teaching. We
are connected to that.
Even though we are connected there, our duration of the connected there is so small for us at the
beginning, or many of us, maybe I shouldn't say us, maybe many of us, is so small.
We connected there for short, maybe few seconds or minutes or something, then completely kind of
again, interrupted by our old mundane habit of patience, force that we kind of running as a
believer, current, that completely blocked that.
Therefore, what in the teaching is it? Keep the joyful effort, keep the devotions, keep the poor
renunciation towards those thoughts, really inspire yourself every day, not just kind of keeping up
those things, eat well, keep bringing everything to the crazy stage.
If we don't have the devotion, if we don't have the poor renunciation, or the portraying of the
mind, our practice becomes vague, vague, vague, what kind of become dull, and maybe it started with
good, what insight, motivation, oh wow, wonderful, this is so good, I like to do this and that
things.
But then time goes, kind of fading away, fading away, gradually become kind of fading away, fading
away, and then it feels low, it's not that important, oh I am doing this, even some kind of those
people can think of that, in completely complicated way, and went to the road, or write different
talk, talk of the road, F-O-R-K, talk of the road, when it represents that.
Those who are known as the Buddha's teaching and the teaching of the GURUPEEM are some obstacles,
obstacles, this is not supposed to be moved, those people made the smart moves, it is obstacle
movements, obstacle, heading to the samsara.
The samsara, heading to the dull life to change that, students are not avoided with those things,
the devotions, both each other, the poor renunciation, the poor portraying of the mind, and we
activated those things, our practice becomes always like fresh, fresh, fresh, fresh, fresh, it
really becomes so beautiful, wonderful.
Every day is beautiful, every day is new life, everything is just so precious, beautiful, it is
like teaching, it is reminding, reminding, never going to fail in the wrong direction, and never
discourage it, and moving always stronger and stronger.
Those who are known as the Buddha's teaching, known as warriors, they are the warriors, they are
really winning over the delusion of all that of old, mundane, unnecessary habit patterns, they are
winning from that.
And then we are repeating the negative emotions, negative emotions and obscurations, and then they
get the victorious, they gain the victorious, that is what Buddha and GURUPEEM are similar to what
Ahad has named the one who worked to respond.
All that Ahad is known as the one who defeated the enemies of all of them.
So with those days, then we practice the Togat, the Surya Tyutu.